Feature Proposal: Menstrual Cycle and Sexual Health
Overview:
Sims currently has sex-related actions formally known as “Woohoo” as well as Pregnancy mechanisms. An expansion on these mechanics would include the implementation of a menstrual cycle for teenagers and adults of the female sex. This would also include the ability to purchase menstrual items for teenagers and adults of the female sex. 

Value Statement:
Sexual health and well-being is important. With the prior implementation of Pregnancy in Sims, including a menstrual cycle for able-bodied characters promotes the value that the natural health cycle is not a taboo or shameful topic.

Solution:
Behavior Moodlets: This feature would primarily affect the behavior moodlets of the sims. Different phases would have associated different probability moodlets with different stages. For example, the follicular phase could be associated with a higher chance of producing a happy moodlet, whereas the menstrual phase may produce a sad moodlet. Players may be prone to certain actions such as binging food depending on where they are in their cycle. Players may also experience embarrassment moodlets if they “bleed through their pants”.
Pregnancy: The timing of the sim's cycle would affect their likelihood of pregnancy. Ovulation would increase the chances of pregnancy.
Life Events: For teenage/child sims, getting their first period can be marked as a special life event and even celebrated or congratulated by other sims. The parent expansion pack may allow parents to “Give their Child the Talk” which may help lower the anxiety of the child during this life event. However, if they don't have a talk beforehand, the child may get an anxiety moodlet.
Menstrual Cycle: For a couple of days a month, teenage and adult sims will get their period. During this time, there may be actions including “change your period product” or “Talk about period”.

Evaluation Statement: 
This feature allows for the opportunity to interact across a spectrum of game mechanics. Because it would directly affect the gameplay of all players with female-sexed sims, it may require some research to determine the extent of which players would want a feature like this to affect their gameplay. 

